---  
categories: blog  
title: ஆண்களுக்கு எதிரான பொய் வழக்குகள்
keywords: More, Tamil, Books  
description: இப்போது தற்கால பெண்கள் பொய் வழக்குகளைப் போட்டு ஆண்களின் குடும்பத்தினரை துன்புறுத்தல் என்பது அரசால் அன்ங்கஈகரிக்கப் பட்ட தீவிரவாதம். இந்திய அரசியல் அமைப்பால், மாநிலக் காவல் துறையால் ஆண்களின் மீது ஏவப்படுகிறது. ஆண்கள் அனைவரும் அவசியம் இது பற்றி தெரிந்து கொள்ள வேண்டும்; ஒரு நாகரிகமற்ற காண்டிமிராண்டியை வாழ்க்கைத் துணையாக ஒரு குடும்பத்தினுள் கொண்டு வந்தால் "இந்த அங்கீகரிக்கப் பட்ட தீவிரவாதத்தை" இந்திய அரசியல்/காவல்/நீதித் துறை ஆண்களின் மீது ஈவி விடப்படுகிறது.
author: Tamilan  
layout: Ruby  
tags:     
- ஜெயபாரதன்
permalink: false498a  
featured: /images/noolkal_96_6.png  
---  

ஒரு வேலை இந்த சட்டத்தின் கீழ் ஊழல் நிறைந்த ஆரசியல் அமைப்பு இந்த தீவிரவாதத்தை ஏவி விடும்.

## A Weapon Rather Than A Shield By Disgruntled Wives

misuse of 498a being treated as a weapon rather than a shield by disgruntled wives
Patna High Court, …….. (Ref 498a.legalsafe.in/2015/PatnaHC/A011) says on misuse of 498A

12. Misuse of section 498A of I.P.C. in may cases has been judicially noticed by the Apex Court as well as various High Courts. It has been highlighted in those judgments that keeping in view the social objective behind the section, it is the duty of the courts to ensure that the complaints filed with false or exaggerated allegations out of ulterior motives or in a fit of emotion should be curbed .

13. Recently, the Apex Court equated misuse of the section to "legal terrorism" and said it was being treated as a "weapon rather than a shield by disgruntled wives."

14. The Apex Court in …………. (Ref 498a.legalsafe.in/2014/SC/A008) even reminded the learned members of the Bar that as they owe enormous social responsibility and obligation for ensuring social fiber of family life, they ought not to advice presentation of exaggerated version of small incidents so that ever grooming tendency of one complaint giving rise to multiple cases should be curbed. Treating every complaint under 498 A as basic human problem the Apex Court observed that the advocates must make serious endeavor to help the parties in arriving at an amicable solution.

15. In …………. (Ref 498a.legalsafe.in/2014/SC/A008)  in paras 30, 32, 33 and 34 the Apex Court went on to hold:

"30. It is a matter of common knowledge that unfortunately matrimonial litigation is rapidly increasing in our country. All the courts in our country including this Court are flooded with matrimonial cases. This clearly demonstrates discontent and unrest in the family life of a large number of people of the society.

32. It is a matter of common experience that most of these complaints under Section 498-A IPC are filed in the heat of the moment over trivial issues without proper deliberations. We come across a large number of such complaints which are not even bona fide and are filed with oblique motive. At the same time, rapid increase in the number of genuine cases of dowry harassment is also a matter of serious concern.

33. The learned members of the Bar have enormous social responsibility and obligation to ensure that the social fibre of family life is not ruined or demolished.        

They must ensure that exaggerated versions of small incidents should not be reflected in the criminal complaints. Majority of the complaints are filed either on their advice or with their concurrence. The learned members of the Bar who belong to a noble profession must maintain its noble traditions and should treat every complaint under Section 498-A as a basic human problem and must make serious endeavour to help the parties in arriving at an amicable resolution of that human problem. They must discharge their duties to the best of their abilities to ensure that social fibre, peace and tranquillity of the society remains intact. The members of the Bar should also ensure that one complaint should not lead to multiple cases.

34. Unfortunately, at the time of filing of the complaint the implications and consequences are not properly visualised by the complainant that such complaint can lead to insurmountable harassment, agony and pain to the complainant, accused and his close relations."

Ref 498a.legalsafe.in/2015/PatnaHC/A011


- [498A.HELP](http://498a.legalsafe.in)
- [Fight-Against-Legal-Terrorism](http://fight-against-legal-terrorism.blogspot.com/)
